So the next thing we want to talk about
is actually let's dive right into some of
those differences we talked about alert,
but browser versus node.
So I think the biggest thing here
is just like the global space and
like what is in the global, right?
So if I'm in the browser and
I go in here and
I type in window, Right,
there's a window here.
Literally everything's
attached to the window, right?
So, I don't even have to include it.
If I say alert,
it's implied that the thing to the left
of the alert is actually window.alert.
I don't know if you knew that, but
everything is attached to an object.
And [LAUGH] if you don't mention that
object, it's assumed that it's a global,
it's on the window.
So alert here would actually do something
because we're in the browser, right?
That's a global window.alert, same thing.
But we can't do a window in JavaScript,
right?
If I try to log this,
let's see what happens.
Maybe they're smart now,
they mock this out, but let's see.
You see I get an error,
window is not defined.
So there's no such thing as window and
Node.js.
The alternative to that would be something
called literally global, if I can type.
So if you type in global,
then we get this thing,
which is the equivalent of
Node.js's window object.
We almost never use global, it's just
like you would almost never use window.
It's just there, it's implied,
but that's the equivalent there.
And you can see some familiar
faces in here, right?
Clear intervals,
set intervals, set timeout.
A lot of these things are the same
thing that exist in the browser.
So, it's different, but not so different.
Even fetch now, they have fetch that's
seems to be built in here, which is,
actually, I didn't know that,
that's new, I want to try that out.
[LAUGH] So,
a lot of those things like that.
The other thing is now that browsers
have modules there's a slight difference
on how you interact with modules and
create modules in the browser and Node.js.
So we're going to talk about modules yet
and we will, but
I'm bringing this up now just because
you've used modules in the browser before,
which I don't think a lot
of people do directly.
I think, for the most part,
you probably don't.
You probably don't do things like this in
the browser, but the tools you use do.
So if you use something like Vite or
Rollup or any other build tool,
they'll probably do something like
this for you so you don't have to.
But you can do modules in the browser now,
and
this is how you would declare a module.
You have a script tag, type module,
You point to a JavaScript file, and
it's technically a module.
Well, you can do the same
thing in Node.js as well,
except there's no DOM, so
there's no script tag.
So you just actually import and
export your modules in code.
And we gonna talk about those in a minute.
But they both have support for modules and
depending on what build system you have,
you can use them on both environments,
right?
So if you wrote JavaScript in such a way
that it was aware of what environment it
was in, then therefore that JavaScript
can run in both environments.
So, and that's really simple,
you can check to see if a window exists or
no, you can handle that error,
you can stop things out.
So this is where you get to like universal
JavaScript that works in both environments
which if you ever use
something like Next.js,
that happens in the same
file multiple times.
There's so many different environments
in there, it's ridiculous.
And those are just two environments, and
JavaScript works also in React Native or
other different places, and then those
provide different globals as well.
So, there's a lot going on
there with modules, but
we'll dive into it a little more.
And then the big one here is just the DOM,
right?
All this cool stuff,
you can forget about it.
You're never gonna do
this a Node because like,
I mean, what do you think would
happen if I typed this in Node?
What would you expect to happen?
There's no visual output,
there is no webpage, so
I don't really know what that would do.
I can't go reference some element
called element ID because
there is no HTML, there is no DOM,
so couldn't do it.
It does get a little confusing because you
can do HTML on a server which we will be
doing today but
even then that HTML doesn't get,
executed until it's on the browser.
So, yeah, there's no DOM stuff here.
But the difference is with Node, you can
create what's called a server, right.
If you don't know what a server is,
we'll talk about that as well, but it's
basically like a computer that's remote
somewhere that responds to requests and
can send back files, data, information.
Whereas JavaScript on the browser is
probably gonna be a client that is
the thing that's sending requests to
the server and not the server itself.
So, that's the equivalent of that.
We talk about console and
how that's pretty much the same.
There's a lot of more differences in here,
these are just some of the ones that I
wanted to go through cuz these are the
ones you'll probably use the most or
the ones I think are most confusing.
When you get started,
just trying to think about,
I've been writing JavaScript in a browser
for so long to interact with elements, so
what do I do with JavaScript now if
I'm not interacting with elements?
You can do a lot, and
we're gonna go over that.
Don't worry about this server example,
you're gonna be writing
one of these really soon.
So if this looks crazy,
don't worry about it,
it won't look crazy by the end of today.
Let's talk about the Node REPL.
So, what is a REPL?
REPL stands for Read,
Evaluate, Print, Loop.
It's basically a way for
you to write inline JavaScript.
I mean, you've used a REPL before if
you've opened up the terminal and
you wrote JavaScript here,
that's a REPL, basically.
So we get the same thing in Node
as if we go into our terminal and
just like when we executed that file
where we set Node and we did index.
Instead of doing that, we could just
type node with no arguments, and
now we're inside of a REPL
where we can write JavaScript.
So now I can do things,
I'm actually writing JavaScript here,
you can see I get auto complete and
this is just JavaScript.
So this is the Node REPL where you can
just, it's literally the equivalent to
open up the console in the browser and
writing some arbitrary JavaScript.
Obviously not ideal, you would never come
in here and build an application because,
one, where's it going?
It's not saving anywhere.
So it's just some place to go
to to try some things out.
I almost never use it, [LAUGH] but
it's here, if you need to,
actually you know what, I will come
here sometimes for a calculator [LAUGH].
I'll do math in here, cuz it's just
quicker to do math in here sometimes than
open up the calculator app,
that's like the only time I use this.
Otherwise, almost never use it.
But it's here for you to explore and
try things, maybe copy some code and
paste it safely, see what happens.
But that's the REPL.
To get out of it, at least on a Mac,
you can hit Ctrl+C,
then it'll bring up this message,
if you want to exit, press Ctrl+C again or
Ctrl+D, or just type exit,
like .exit, and it'll go away.
But typically, I'll just hit Ctrl+C twice
for it to go away, don't use it [LAUGH].
It's just there because it can be,
but you'll never use a REPL like that.
Not to be confused with the website
called REPL which is really cool, but
yeah, you will never use it.
And I talk about some of those reasons
here, but basically it's not a file,
you can't save it, you can't version it,
it's just to try some things out.
Just like you would never
build an app in a console,
you would never build an app in the REPL.